Here is a quick look into my thought process while going through this project. 

First things first the data is sourced from https://www.mavenanalytics.io/data-playground
What was asked of me was to improve retention by identifying high value customers and churn risks. 

First I determined the business questions that need to be asked:
1.Who are the High Value Customers?
2.Who are the churn risks?
3.Reasons for poor retention, so that we may improve.

I considered who I would be presenting the report to (the CMO) to make sure I keep in mind what they might want to see from the report.
I cleaned the data in excel, which was very simple considering this data was created specifically for this project, so there were very few changes to be made.
Although this was a smaller dataset and I could have done my analysis with mainly Excel and Tableau, I chose SQL as my main tool.

I have my SQL Query for this project in another attached file. 
I started my query asking simple questions to get general ideas for insights such as, is there a difference in gender and what are the most common ages?
Although neither of those ended up being of high importance to this report. 
When jumping into the question of churn risks, I wanted to figure out what customers churned (left the company) and what they had in common.
The most valuable data was the "Churn Reason", which laid out the main reason that customers chose to leave.
I then looked into different aspects of the data to view possible correlations bewteen customers who have churned and offers, internet type, tenure, contracts, and so on. 
Making sure to then compare to customers that have stayed. 
This data also included customers that had just joined in this quarter. 
I did take a quick look at what that data had to show for joiners but that data had few insights considering the little amount of time they have been with the company.
To figure out who the High Value Customers are I took a look at the customers that brought in above average revenue. 
I compared differences between High Value Customers and churners to determine what can be done to retain more customers.
The most common reason for leaving was the competitor having better offers and devices. 

Once I was finsihed with my analysis in SQL, I started making vizualizations in both Excel, with pivot tables and charts, and Tableau.
I really enjoy seeing data tell a story through visualizations.
Using these tools to visualize the data helps to clearly understand it and be able to explain it to the CMO.
Plus you never know what answers might pop up to questions you did not even think to ask!
The hard part for me when turning data insights into a one page report is keeping it clean, concise, and on point. 
When there are so many interesting things I have gathered from the data I have to take a step back and remember the business questions and who I am presenting to. 
I then determined what data specifically answered my questions and compiled that into a report.

A few things I would do differently in the future:
1. Change the names of the columns in the dataset to not include spaces to make using SQL easier and cleaner. 
2. Use more complex graphs that can show complex insights.
3. Create an interactive dashboard. 

I really enjoyed this project and felt it gave me real world experience and a chance to show a little of my skill. 




